website/src/content/docs/rulebook/early-submissions.md, before:

---
title: Early Submissions
description: Guidelines for early competition submissions via MyMIST Portal
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

All early submissions or competitions with a submission component are to be made via the **MyMIST Portal**. The MyMIST portal only accepts one (1) submission file. For uploading multiple files, all files must be put together into a zip file, and the zip file can be uploaded into the portal.

## Competitions with Early Submissions

**Two Weeks Prior to Tournament:**
- Prepared Essay
- Short Fiction
- Poetry
- Short Film
- Business Venture Proposal
- Science Fair Abstract
- Social Media
- Humanitarian Service
- Digital Art

## General Guidelines for Written Submissions

- Typed and double-spaced
- Size 12 font, Times New Roman
- **All submissions must be in PDF format.** Failure to do so will risk the submission not being scored.
- A written statement is required for all early submission competitions unless stated otherwise, which should be included on a separate page at the end of your document, or submission.
- Have a cover page with the title, MIST ID and name of competition.
- **Competitor name or other identifying markers should not be anywhere on the piece.**
- Label the document in the following format: `MISTID_COMPETITIONNAME`
  - Example: `A1B2C-3D4E5_CreativeWriting`

## Late Submissions

:::caution[Point Deductions]
- Submissions submitted within **24 hours** of the regional deadline will be subject to a **5-point overall deduction**
- Every incremental day the submission passes the deadline, another **10 points** will be deducted.
- Submissions beyond **three (3) days** of the original deadline will **not be accepted** and will be disqualified.
:::

## Important Notes

- All competitors must bring **3 hard copies** of your early submission competitions, with the exception of Poetry, Prepared Essay, and Short Fiction submissions.
- Each region has the right to deduct points from the competitor's score if the above submission format is not followed.
- Make sure to check the specific rules pertaining to each competition for Written Statement as not all competitions have the same requirements.

Commit message:

Add interactive scoring ballots to all competition pages
- Create configurable InteractiveBallot.astro component with:
  - Multi-column support (e.g., Game 1/2/3 for Improv)
  - Section groupings with subtotals
  - Bonus point checkboxes
  - Negative point deductions (for Quran competitions)
  - Auto-calculated totals and averages
  - Dark mode compatible styling

- Convert 22 competition pages from static tables to interactive ballots:
  - Arts: 2D Art, 3D Art, Digital Art, Fashion Design, Photography
  - Writing/Oratory: Poetry, Prepared Essay, Short Fiction,
    Extemporaneous Essay/Speaking, Original Oratory, Spoken Word
  - Group Projects: Business Venture, Humanitarian Service,
    Nasheed/Rap, Science Fair, Short Film, Social Media
  - Knowledge/Quran: Memorization & Recitation (with deductions)
  - Brackets: Improv (with 3-game columns)

- Add cross-linking across site pages
- Add Welcome Letter and Zip tutorials to early submissions
- Convert competition pages from .md to .mdx format

Co-authored-by: factory-droid[bot] <138933559+factory-droid[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

website/src/content/docs/rulebook/early-submissions.md, after:

---
title: Early Submissions
description: Guidelines for early competition submissions via MyMIST Portal
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

All early submissions or competitions with a submission component are to be made via the **MyMIST Portal**. The MyMIST portal only accepts one (1) submission file. For uploading multiple files, all files must be put together into a zip file, and the zip file can be uploaded into the portal.

:::tip[How to Create a Zip File]
If you need help creating a zip file:
- **Windows**: [How to zip files in Windows](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/zip-and-unzip-files-8d28fa72-f2f9-712f-67df-f80cf89fd4e5)
- **macOS**: [How to zip files on Mac](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/compress-uncompress-files-folders-mac-mchlp2528/mac)
:::

## Competitions with Early Submissions

**Two Weeks Prior to Tournament:**
- [Prepared Essay](/rulebook/writing-oratory/prepared-essay/)
- [Short Fiction](/rulebook/writing-oratory/short-fiction/)
- [Poetry](/rulebook/writing-oratory/poetry/)
- [Short Film](/rulebook/group-projects/short-film/)
- [Business Venture](/rulebook/group-projects/business-venture/) Proposal
- [Science Fair](/rulebook/group-projects/science-fair/) Abstract
- [Social Media](/rulebook/group-projects/social-media/)
- [Humanitarian Service](/rulebook/group-projects/humanitarian-service/)
- [Digital Art](/rulebook/arts/digital-art/)

## General Guidelines for Written Submissions

- Typed and double-spaced
- Size 12 font, Times New Roman
- **All submissions must be in PDF format.** Failure to do so will risk the submission not being scored.
- A written statement is required for all early submission competitions unless stated otherwise, which should be included on a separate page at the end of your document, or submission.
- Have a cover page with the title, MIST ID and name of competition.
- **Competitor name or other identifying markers should not be anywhere on the piece.**
- Label the document in the following format: `MISTID_COMPETITIONNAME`
  - Example: `A1B2C-3D4E5_CreativeWriting`

## Late Submissions

:::caution[Point Deductions]
- Submissions submitted within **24 hours** of the regional deadline will be subject to a **5-point overall deduction**
- Every incremental day the submission passes the deadline, another **10 points** will be deducted.
- Submissions beyond **three (3) days** of the original deadline will **not be accepted** and will be disqualified.
:::

## Important Notes

- All competitors must bring **3 hard copies** of your early submission competitions, with the exception of [Poetry](/rulebook/writing-oratory/poetry/), [Prepared Essay](/rulebook/writing-oratory/prepared-essay/), and [Short Fiction](/rulebook/writing-oratory/short-fiction/) submissions.
- Each region has the right to deduct points from the competitor's score if the above submission format is not followed.
- Make sure to check the specific rules pertaining to each competition for Written Statement as not all competitions have the same requirements.
