website/src/content/docs/quiz-bowl-topics/topic-4-seerah.md, before:

---
title: "Topic 4: Seerah"
description: "MIST Quiz Bowl Topic 4 - Community, Direction, and Diplomacy in the Seerah"
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

## Community, Direction, and Diplomacy in the Seerah

This topic explores key moments in the life of the Prophet Muhammad (SAW) that shaped the early Muslim community. Through the establishment of the first mosques, early khutbahs, the change of the Qiblah, and the Treaty of Hudaybiyya, the materials examine how faith, leadership, and political strategy worked together during a critical period of Islamic history.

**Goal:** Understand how principles of worship, unity, and diplomacy guided the development of the Muslim community in times of both challenge and opportunity.

## Source Materials

Questions will be asked from the following Dr. Yasir Qadhi lectures:

1. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammed 31: Building of the First Mosques in Islam**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DtvaaYZAIH8&t=15s) (YouTube)
   - *Testable: Start to 33:45 and 42:06 to 49:43*

2. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammed 34: Change of the Qiblah & Abrogation in Qur'an**](https://youtu.be/kHdmBfZk60c?si=pEIvbn6WuK3GSdVH) (YouTube)
   - *Testable: Start to 1:08:59*

3. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammad 63: Between the Battle of Khandaq & Hudaybiyya P1**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KoKc9ZuATao) (YouTube)
   - *Testable: Start to 50:14*

4. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammad 64: The Treaty of Hudaybiyya P2**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3T9ISoCbRbw) (YouTube)
   - *Testable: Start to 53:39 and 1:00:17 to 1:21:47*

5. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammad 65: The Treaty of Hudaybiyya P3**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XlcZj24RJ8g) (YouTube)
   - *Testable: Start to 27:22 and 30:34 to end*

6. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammad 66: The Treaty of Hudaybiyya P4**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Km5XNLLMdw) (YouTube)
   - *Full video testable*

7. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammad 67: The Treaty of Hudaybiyya P5**](https://youtu.be/xntLOocUCRk?si=0KoUz8SlP37N0Gjs) (YouTube)
   - *Full video testable*

8. [**The Political Impacts Of The Treaty Of Al-Hudaybiya**](https://migrationletters.com/index.php/ml/article/view/10557/7050) - Migration Letters (PDF)

:::tip[Study Guide]
A [study guide](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/x31e2rixmz2gormlzqvd7/Sh.-Dr.-YQ-s-Seerah-Transcript-All-in-One.pdf?rlkey=zk88e0vmyp0a5ay1vtr7k1rj0&e=1&st=0g2l8j97&dl=0) (not exhaustive transcript) from the Yasir Qadhi podcast is available. Find assigned portions through its table of contents. Supplemental definitions clearly stated are open for testing.
:::

## What's Fair Game

All information in the materials is testable, including:
- Dates
- Numbers and statistics
- Names and backgrounds of individuals mentioned
- Definitions for key terms
- Arabic terminology that the speaker/writer provided context for

:::note
Whole ayahs in the Qur'an will not be tested. References do not need to be memorized.
:::

## Key Themes to Study

- Building of the first mosques in Islam
- Early khutbahs (sermons)
- Change of the Qiblah
- Concept of abrogation in the Qur'an
- Treaty of Hudaybiyya
  - Context and negotiations
  - Terms of the treaty
  - Reactions of the Companions
  - Political and spiritual significance

## Contact

For questions about the materials: hkhattak@getmistified.com

Commit message:

Add interactive scoring ballots to all competition pages
- Create configurable InteractiveBallot.astro component with:
  - Multi-column support (e.g., Game 1/2/3 for Improv)
  - Section groupings with subtotals
  - Bonus point checkboxes
  - Negative point deductions (for Quran competitions)
  - Auto-calculated totals and averages
  - Dark mode compatible styling

- Convert 22 competition pages from static tables to interactive ballots:
  - Arts: 2D Art, 3D Art, Digital Art, Fashion Design, Photography
  - Writing/Oratory: Poetry, Prepared Essay, Short Fiction,
    Extemporaneous Essay/Speaking, Original Oratory, Spoken Word
  - Group Projects: Business Venture, Humanitarian Service,
    Nasheed/Rap, Science Fair, Short Film, Social Media
  - Knowledge/Quran: Memorization & Recitation (with deductions)
  - Brackets: Improv (with 3-game columns)

- Add cross-linking across site pages
- Add Welcome Letter and Zip tutorials to early submissions
- Convert competition pages from .md to .mdx format

Co-authored-by: factory-droid[bot] <138933559+factory-droid[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

website/src/content/docs/quiz-bowl-topics/topic-4-seerah.md, after:

---
title: "Topic 4: Seerah"
description: "MIST Quiz Bowl Topic 4 - Community, Direction, and Diplomacy in the Seerah"
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

## Community, Direction, and Diplomacy in the Seerah

This topic explores key moments in the life of the Prophet Muhammad (SAW) that shaped the early Muslim community. Through the establishment of the first mosques, early khutbahs, the change of the Qiblah, and the Treaty of Hudaybiyya, the materials examine how faith, leadership, and political strategy worked together during a critical period of Islamic history.

**Goal:** Understand how principles of worship, unity, and diplomacy guided the development of the Muslim community in times of both challenge and opportunity.

## Source Materials

Questions will be asked from the following Dr. Yasir Qadhi lectures:

1. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammed 31: Building of the First Mosques in Islam**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DtvaaYZAIH8&t=15s) (YouTube)
   - *Testable: Start to 33:45 and 42:06 to 49:43*

2. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammed 34: Change of the Qiblah & Abrogation in Qur'an**](https://youtu.be/kHdmBfZk60c?si=pEIvbn6WuK3GSdVH) (YouTube)
   - *Testable: Start to 1:08:59*

3. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammad 63: Between the Battle of Khandaq & Hudaybiyya P1**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KoKc9ZuATao) (YouTube)
   - *Testable: Start to 50:14*

4. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammad 64: The Treaty of Hudaybiyya P2**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3T9ISoCbRbw) (YouTube)
   - *Testable: Start to 53:39 and 1:00:17 to 1:21:47*

5. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammad 65: The Treaty of Hudaybiyya P3**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XlcZj24RJ8g) (YouTube)
   - *Testable: Start to 27:22 and 30:34 to end*

6. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammad 66: The Treaty of Hudaybiyya P4**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Km5XNLLMdw) (YouTube)
   - *Full video testable*

7. [**Seerah of Prophet Muhammad 67: The Treaty of Hudaybiyya P5**](https://youtu.be/xntLOocUCRk?si=0KoUz8SlP37N0Gjs) (YouTube)
   - *Full video testable*

8. [**The Political Impacts Of The Treaty Of Al-Hudaybiya**](https://migrationletters.com/index.php/ml/article/view/10557/7050) - Migration Letters (PDF)

:::tip[Study Guide]
A [study guide](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/x31e2rixmz2gormlzqvd7/Sh.-Dr.-YQ-s-Seerah-Transcript-All-in-One.pdf?rlkey=zk88e0vmyp0a5ay1vtr7k1rj0&e=1&st=0g2l8j97&dl=0) (not exhaustive transcript) from the Yasir Qadhi podcast is available. Find assigned portions through its table of contents. Supplemental definitions clearly stated are open for testing.
:::

## What's Fair Game

All information in the materials is testable, including:
- Dates
- Numbers and statistics
- Names and backgrounds of individuals mentioned
- Definitions for key terms
- Arabic terminology that the speaker/writer provided context for

:::note
Whole ayahs in the Qur'an will not be tested. References do not need to be memorized.
:::

## Key Themes to Study

- Building of the first mosques in Islam
- Early khutbahs (sermons)
- Change of the Qiblah
- Concept of abrogation in the Qur'an
- Treaty of Hudaybiyya
  - Context and negotiations
  - Terms of the treaty
  - Reactions of the Companions
  - Political and spiritual significance

## Competition Rules

See the [Quiz Bowl](/rulebook/brackets/quiz-bowl/) page for full competition rules and scoring.

## Contact

For questions about the materials: hkhattak@getmistified.com
