website/src/content/docs/quiz-bowl-topics/topic-1-water.md, before:

---
title: "Topic 1: The Flow of Water"
description: "MIST Quiz Bowl Topic 1 - Balancing Scarcity, Use, and Waste"
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

## The Flow of Water: Balancing Scarcity, Use, and Waste

This topic explores how human systems like households, agriculture, industry, and public infrastructure interact with water resources, and what happens when access and usage is imbalanced. Using data, reports, and real-world examples, these materials highlight patterns of shortage, overconsumption, and inefficiency around the world.

**Goal:** Consider how decisions surrounding water use affect health, food security, and long-term sustainability across communities.

## Source Materials

Questions will be asked from the following:

1. [**How AI Uses Our Drinking Water**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b0C56yqIkbk) - BBC World Service (YouTube)
2. [**Water Scarcity**](https://www.worldwildlife.org/our-work/freshwater/water-scarcity/) - World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
3. [**Drinking Water**](https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/drinking-water) - World Health Organization (WHO)
4. [**Water Scarcity in Agriculture: The Greatest Threat to Global Food Security**](https://utia.tennessee.edu/publications/wp-content/uploads/sites/269/2024/07/W1252.pdf) - University of Tennessee (PDF)
5. [**The United Nations World Water Development Report 2024: Water for Prosperity and Peace**](https://globalwater.osu.edu/sites/default/files/2024-03/The%20United%20Nations%20World%20Water%20Development%20Report%202024-%20water%20for%20prosperity%20and%20peace.pdf) (PDF)
6. [**The United Nations World Water Development Report 2024: Facts, Figures, and Action Examples**](https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000388952) - UNESCO

## What's Fair Game

All information in the materials is testable, including:
- Graph/figure content (labels, numbers, statistics)
- Dates
- Numbers and statistics
- Names and backgrounds of speakers or individuals mentioned
- Definitions for key terms

:::note
References within the materials do not need to be memorized.
:::

## Key Themes to Study

- AI and data center water consumption
- Global water scarcity patterns
- Agricultural water use
- Drinking water access and safety
- Water sustainability solutions
- Community impacts of water stress

## Contact

For questions about the materials: hkhattak@getmistified.com

Commit message:

Add interactive scoring ballots to all competition pages
- Create configurable InteractiveBallot.astro component with:
  - Multi-column support (e.g., Game 1/2/3 for Improv)
  - Section groupings with subtotals
  - Bonus point checkboxes
  - Negative point deductions (for Quran competitions)
  - Auto-calculated totals and averages
  - Dark mode compatible styling

- Convert 22 competition pages from static tables to interactive ballots:
  - Arts: 2D Art, 3D Art, Digital Art, Fashion Design, Photography
  - Writing/Oratory: Poetry, Prepared Essay, Short Fiction,
    Extemporaneous Essay/Speaking, Original Oratory, Spoken Word
  - Group Projects: Business Venture, Humanitarian Service,
    Nasheed/Rap, Science Fair, Short Film, Social Media
  - Knowledge/Quran: Memorization & Recitation (with deductions)
  - Brackets: Improv (with 3-game columns)

- Add cross-linking across site pages
- Add Welcome Letter and Zip tutorials to early submissions
- Convert competition pages from .md to .mdx format

Co-authored-by: factory-droid[bot] <138933559+factory-droid[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

website/src/content/docs/quiz-bowl-topics/topic-1-water.md, after:

---
title: "Topic 1: The Flow of Water"
description: "MIST Quiz Bowl Topic 1 - Balancing Scarcity, Use, and Waste"
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

## The Flow of Water: Balancing Scarcity, Use, and Waste

This topic explores how human systems like households, agriculture, industry, and public infrastructure interact with water resources, and what happens when access and usage is imbalanced. Using data, reports, and real-world examples, these materials highlight patterns of shortage, overconsumption, and inefficiency around the world.

**Goal:** Consider how decisions surrounding water use affect health, food security, and long-term sustainability across communities.

## Source Materials

Questions will be asked from the following:

1. [**How AI Uses Our Drinking Water**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b0C56yqIkbk) - BBC World Service (YouTube)
2. [**Water Scarcity**](https://www.worldwildlife.org/our-work/freshwater/water-scarcity/) - World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
3. [**Drinking Water**](https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/drinking-water) - World Health Organization (WHO)
4. [**Water Scarcity in Agriculture: The Greatest Threat to Global Food Security**](https://utia.tennessee.edu/publications/wp-content/uploads/sites/269/2024/07/W1252.pdf) - University of Tennessee (PDF)
5. [**The United Nations World Water Development Report 2024: Water for Prosperity and Peace**](https://globalwater.osu.edu/sites/default/files/2024-03/The%20United%20Nations%20World%20Water%20Development%20Report%202024-%20water%20for%20prosperity%20and%20peace.pdf) (PDF)
6. [**The United Nations World Water Development Report 2024: Facts, Figures, and Action Examples**](https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000388952) - UNESCO

## What's Fair Game

All information in the materials is testable, including:
- Graph/figure content (labels, numbers, statistics)
- Dates
- Numbers and statistics
- Names and backgrounds of speakers or individuals mentioned
- Definitions for key terms

:::note
References within the materials do not need to be memorized.
:::

## Key Themes to Study

- AI and data center water consumption
- Global water scarcity patterns
- Agricultural water use
- Drinking water access and safety
- Water sustainability solutions
- Community impacts of water stress

## Competition Rules

See the [Quiz Bowl](/rulebook/brackets/quiz-bowl/) page for full competition rules and scoring.

## Contact

For questions about the materials: hkhattak@getmistified.com
