website/src/content/docs/quiz-bowl-topics/topic-5-current-events.md, before:

---
title: "Topic 5: Current Events"
description: "MIST Quiz Bowl Topic 5 - Current Events 2025"
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

## Current Events

This topic provides a broad snapshot of major global developments through timelines and summaries of significant events and figures from the year.

**Coverage Period:** January 1, 2025 - December 31, 2025

:::caution[Important Change for 2026]
The first part of all **Round 1 questions** will highlight information **not explicitly stated** in the provided materials. This encourages students to stay informed by following news beyond the assigned readings.
:::

## Source Materials

- [**Current Events Timeline**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025) - Wikipedia (use scroll feature for Jan-Dec)
- [**Current Events Deaths**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deaths_in_2025#December) - Wikipedia (use scroll feature for Jan-Dec)

## What's Fair Game

All information in the articles is testable, including:
- Dates
- Numbers and statistics
- Names and backgrounds of individuals mentioned
- Definitions for key terms

:::note
The timeline serves as a study guide. However, questions may also be asked around social events taking place around the world in mainstream media.
:::

## Study Approach

**This material is not exhaustive.** Students should:
1. Read the provided timeline materials thoroughly
2. **Follow current news sources** throughout the year
3. Stay informed about major global events
4. Pay attention to significant world figures and developments

## Example Question Format

Here's how Round 1 questions may be structured (this example is from 2022 and will NOT be used):

> **For 100 points:** This tournament's mascot, Mola the lion, appeared throughout venues in cities such as Bafoussam, Garoua, and Limbe, which hosted group-stage matches for this event. Despite multiple postponements due to infrastructure delays and COVID-19 concerns, this competition ultimately proceeded under strict health protocols...
>
> **For 50 points:** Name this international football competition, held from January 9 to February 6, 2021, in Cameroon, which Senegal won for the first time.
>
> **Answer:** The 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON 2021)

Notice how the first part (100 points) contains information from **outside sources**, while the second part (50 points) uses information from the **provided materials**.

## Tips for Success

1. **Read widely** - Don't rely solely on provided materials
2. **Follow multiple news sources** - Get diverse perspectives
3. **Note key dates and figures** - Details matter in Quiz Bowl
4. **Stay current** - Events throughout 2025 are testable
5. **Practice recall** - Quiz yourself on recent events

## Contact

For questions about the materials: hkhattak@getmistified.com

Commit message:

Add interactive scoring ballots to all competition pages
- Create configurable InteractiveBallot.astro component with:
  - Multi-column support (e.g., Game 1/2/3 for Improv)
  - Section groupings with subtotals
  - Bonus point checkboxes
  - Negative point deductions (for Quran competitions)
  - Auto-calculated totals and averages
  - Dark mode compatible styling

- Convert 22 competition pages from static tables to interactive ballots:
  - Arts: 2D Art, 3D Art, Digital Art, Fashion Design, Photography
  - Writing/Oratory: Poetry, Prepared Essay, Short Fiction,
    Extemporaneous Essay/Speaking, Original Oratory, Spoken Word
  - Group Projects: Business Venture, Humanitarian Service,
    Nasheed/Rap, Science Fair, Short Film, Social Media
  - Knowledge/Quran: Memorization & Recitation (with deductions)
  - Brackets: Improv (with 3-game columns)

- Add cross-linking across site pages
- Add Welcome Letter and Zip tutorials to early submissions
- Convert competition pages from .md to .mdx format

Co-authored-by: factory-droid[bot] <138933559+factory-droid[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

website/src/content/docs/quiz-bowl-topics/topic-5-current-events.md, after:

---
title: "Topic 5: Current Events"
description: "MIST Quiz Bowl Topic 5 - Current Events 2025"
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

## Current Events

This topic provides a broad snapshot of major global developments through timelines and summaries of significant events and figures from the year.

**Coverage Period:** January 1, 2025 - December 31, 2025

:::caution[Important Change for 2026]
The first part of all **Round 1 questions** will highlight information **not explicitly stated** in the provided materials. This encourages students to stay informed by following news beyond the assigned readings.
:::

## Source Materials

- [**Current Events Timeline**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025) - Wikipedia (use scroll feature for Jan-Dec)
- [**Current Events Deaths**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deaths_in_2025#December) - Wikipedia (use scroll feature for Jan-Dec)

## What's Fair Game

All information in the articles is testable, including:
- Dates
- Numbers and statistics
- Names and backgrounds of individuals mentioned
- Definitions for key terms

:::note
The timeline serves as a study guide. However, questions may also be asked around social events taking place around the world in mainstream media.
:::

## Study Approach

**This material is not exhaustive.** Students should:
1. Read the provided timeline materials thoroughly
2. **Follow current news sources** throughout the year
3. Stay informed about major global events
4. Pay attention to significant world figures and developments

## Example Question Format

Here's how Round 1 questions may be structured (this example is from 2022 and will NOT be used):

> **For 100 points:** This tournament's mascot, Mola the lion, appeared throughout venues in cities such as Bafoussam, Garoua, and Limbe, which hosted group-stage matches for this event. Despite multiple postponements due to infrastructure delays and COVID-19 concerns, this competition ultimately proceeded under strict health protocols...
>
> **For 50 points:** Name this international football competition, held from January 9 to February 6, 2021, in Cameroon, which Senegal won for the first time.
>
> **Answer:** The 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON 2021)

Notice how the first part (100 points) contains information from **outside sources**, while the second part (50 points) uses information from the **provided materials**.

## Tips for Success

1. **Read widely** - Don't rely solely on provided materials
2. **Follow multiple news sources** - Get diverse perspectives
3. **Note key dates and figures** - Details matter in Quiz Bowl
4. **Stay current** - Events throughout 2025 are testable
5. **Practice recall** - Quiz yourself on recent events

## Competition Rules

See the [Quiz Bowl](/rulebook/brackets/quiz-bowl/) page for full competition rules and scoring.

## Contact

For questions about the materials: hkhattak@getmistified.com
