website/src/content/docs/quiz-bowl-topics/topic-3-housing.md, before:

---
title: "Topic 3: Housing Inequality"
description: "MIST Quiz Bowl Topic 3 - Where The Lines Are Drawn"
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

## Where The Lines Are Drawn: Housing and the Map of Inequality

This topic examines how decisions about housing shape who has access to stability, opportunity, and security. Through a combination of reporting, human rights frameworks, and economic analysis, the materials examine how housing policies, markets, and systems of governance influence where and how people live.

**Goal:** Consider how boundaries around housing are created, reinforced, and challenged, and what these lines reveal about inequality, belonging, and power within societies.

## Source Materials

Questions will be asked from the following:

1. [**Housing and Inclusive Growth**](https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/publications/reports/2020/09/housing-and-inclusive-growth_6034487d/6ef36f4b-en.pdf) - Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) (PDF)
   - *Note: Foreword and Annexes will not be covered*

2. [**4 Practical Solutions to The World's Spiraling Housing Crisis**](https://www.weforum.org/stories/2024/06/global-housing-crisis-practical-solutions/) - World Economic Forum (WEF)

3. [**The Right to Adequate Housing**](https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/Documents/Publications/FS21_rev_1_Housing_en.pdf) - Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR) (PDF)

4. [**Housing Segregation and Redlining in America: A Short History**](https://youtu.be/O5FBJyqfoLM?si=bH6ntJpj4HUx2qAp&t=31) - Code Switch NPR (YouTube)
   - *Testable timestamp: 0:31 to end of video*

## What's Fair Game

All information in the materials is testable, including:
- Graph/figure content (labels, numbers, statistics)
- Dates
- Numbers and statistics
- Names and backgrounds of speakers or individuals mentioned
- Definitions for key terms

:::note
References within the materials do not need to be memorized.
:::

## Key Themes to Study

- Redlining and its historical impact
- Fair Housing Act of 1968
- Housing as a human right
- Connection between housing and:
  - Wealth inequality
  - School funding
  - Health outcomes
  - Policing
- Global housing crisis solutions
- HOLC residential security maps

## Contact

For questions about the materials: hkhattak@getmistified.com

Commit message:

Add interactive scoring ballots to all competition pages
- Create configurable InteractiveBallot.astro component with:
  - Multi-column support (e.g., Game 1/2/3 for Improv)
  - Section groupings with subtotals
  - Bonus point checkboxes
  - Negative point deductions (for Quran competitions)
  - Auto-calculated totals and averages
  - Dark mode compatible styling

- Convert 22 competition pages from static tables to interactive ballots:
  - Arts: 2D Art, 3D Art, Digital Art, Fashion Design, Photography
  - Writing/Oratory: Poetry, Prepared Essay, Short Fiction,
    Extemporaneous Essay/Speaking, Original Oratory, Spoken Word
  - Group Projects: Business Venture, Humanitarian Service,
    Nasheed/Rap, Science Fair, Short Film, Social Media
  - Knowledge/Quran: Memorization & Recitation (with deductions)
  - Brackets: Improv (with 3-game columns)

- Add cross-linking across site pages
- Add Welcome Letter and Zip tutorials to early submissions
- Convert competition pages from .md to .mdx format

Co-authored-by: factory-droid[bot] <138933559+factory-droid[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

website/src/content/docs/quiz-bowl-topics/topic-3-housing.md, after:

---
title: "Topic 3: Housing Inequality"
description: "MIST Quiz Bowl Topic 3 - Where The Lines Are Drawn"
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

## Where The Lines Are Drawn: Housing and the Map of Inequality

This topic examines how decisions about housing shape who has access to stability, opportunity, and security. Through a combination of reporting, human rights frameworks, and economic analysis, the materials examine how housing policies, markets, and systems of governance influence where and how people live.

**Goal:** Consider how boundaries around housing are created, reinforced, and challenged, and what these lines reveal about inequality, belonging, and power within societies.

## Source Materials

Questions will be asked from the following:

1. [**Housing and Inclusive Growth**](https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/publications/reports/2020/09/housing-and-inclusive-growth_6034487d/6ef36f4b-en.pdf) - Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) (PDF)
   - *Note: Foreword and Annexes will not be covered*

2. [**4 Practical Solutions to The World's Spiraling Housing Crisis**](https://www.weforum.org/stories/2024/06/global-housing-crisis-practical-solutions/) - World Economic Forum (WEF)

3. [**The Right to Adequate Housing**](https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/Documents/Publications/FS21_rev_1_Housing_en.pdf) - Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR) (PDF)

4. [**Housing Segregation and Redlining in America: A Short History**](https://youtu.be/O5FBJyqfoLM?si=bH6ntJpj4HUx2qAp&t=31) - Code Switch NPR (YouTube)
   - *Testable timestamp: 0:31 to end of video*

## What's Fair Game

All information in the materials is testable, including:
- Graph/figure content (labels, numbers, statistics)
- Dates
- Numbers and statistics
- Names and backgrounds of speakers or individuals mentioned
- Definitions for key terms

:::note
References within the materials do not need to be memorized.
:::

## Key Themes to Study

- Redlining and its historical impact
- Fair Housing Act of 1968
- Housing as a human right
- Connection between housing and:
  - Wealth inequality
  - School funding
  - Health outcomes
  - Policing
- Global housing crisis solutions
- HOLC residential security maps

## Competition Rules

See the [Quiz Bowl](/rulebook/brackets/quiz-bowl/) page for full competition rules and scoring.

## Contact

For questions about the materials: hkhattak@getmistified.com
