website/src/content/docs/quiz-bowl-topics/topic-2-sudan.md, before:

---
title: "Topic 2: Sudan"
description: "MIST Quiz Bowl Topic 2 - Sudan Beyond the Headlines"
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

## Sudan Beyond the Headlines

This topic invites students to engage with a mix of short articles highlighting major headlines alongside longer readings and personal reflections that provide essential context. Together, these sources help competitors move beyond breaking-news narratives to better understand Sudan's history, humanitarian challenges, and the lived experiences of its people.

**Goal:** Emphasize our roles as informed global citizens and the responsibility we have to engage thoughtfully with global challenges.

## Source Materials

Questions will be asked from the following:

1. [**Sudan**](https://www.britannica.com/place/Sudan) - Britannica
2. [**Sudan: A War of Atrocities**](https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/documents/hrbodies/hrcouncil/sessions-regular/session60/advance-version/a-hrc-60-22-aev.pdf) - Report of The Independent International Fact-Finding Mission for The Sudan (UNHRC) (PDF)
3. [**A Simple Guide to What Is Happening in Sudan**](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cjel2nn22z9o) - BBC
4. [**What Is the Extent of Sudan's Humanitarian Crisis?**](https://www.cfr.org/in-brief/what-extent-sudans-humanitarian-crisis) - Council on Foreign Relations (CFR)
5. [**Humanitarian Crisis: The Sudan Story**](https://globalhealthsciences.ucsf.edu/humanitarian-crisis-the-sudan-story/) - UCSF Global Health Sciences (Blog)
6. [**Humanitarian Crisis: The Sudan Story**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wYLKC6M3hzQ) - UCSF (YouTube Video)

## What's Fair Game

All information in the materials is testable, including:
- Graph/figure content (labels, numbers, statistics)
- Dates
- Numbers and statistics
- Names and backgrounds of speakers or individuals mentioned
- Definitions for key terms

:::note
References within the materials do not need to be memorized.
:::

## Key Themes to Study

- Sudan's geography and regional significance
- Historical context (independence, Bashir regime, Darfur)
- Current conflict between SAF and RSF
- Key figures: General al-Burhan, Hemedti
- Humanitarian crisis and displacement
- International response and aid challenges

## Contact

For questions about the materials: hkhattak@getmistified.com

Commit message:

Add interactive scoring ballots to all competition pages
- Create configurable InteractiveBallot.astro component with:
  - Multi-column support (e.g., Game 1/2/3 for Improv)
  - Section groupings with subtotals
  - Bonus point checkboxes
  - Negative point deductions (for Quran competitions)
  - Auto-calculated totals and averages
  - Dark mode compatible styling

- Convert 22 competition pages from static tables to interactive ballots:
  - Arts: 2D Art, 3D Art, Digital Art, Fashion Design, Photography
  - Writing/Oratory: Poetry, Prepared Essay, Short Fiction,
    Extemporaneous Essay/Speaking, Original Oratory, Spoken Word
  - Group Projects: Business Venture, Humanitarian Service,
    Nasheed/Rap, Science Fair, Short Film, Social Media
  - Knowledge/Quran: Memorization & Recitation (with deductions)
  - Brackets: Improv (with 3-game columns)

- Add cross-linking across site pages
- Add Welcome Letter and Zip tutorials to early submissions
- Convert competition pages from .md to .mdx format

Co-authored-by: factory-droid[bot] <138933559+factory-droid[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

website/src/content/docs/quiz-bowl-topics/topic-2-sudan.md, after:

---
title: "Topic 2: Sudan"
description: "MIST Quiz Bowl Topic 2 - Sudan Beyond the Headlines"
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

## Sudan Beyond the Headlines

This topic invites students to engage with a mix of short articles highlighting major headlines alongside longer readings and personal reflections that provide essential context. Together, these sources help competitors move beyond breaking-news narratives to better understand Sudan's history, humanitarian challenges, and the lived experiences of its people.

**Goal:** Emphasize our roles as informed global citizens and the responsibility we have to engage thoughtfully with global challenges.

## Source Materials

Questions will be asked from the following:

1. [**Sudan**](https://www.britannica.com/place/Sudan) - Britannica
2. [**Sudan: A War of Atrocities**](https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/documents/hrbodies/hrcouncil/sessions-regular/session60/advance-version/a-hrc-60-22-aev.pdf) - Report of The Independent International Fact-Finding Mission for The Sudan (UNHRC) (PDF)
3. [**A Simple Guide to What Is Happening in Sudan**](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cjel2nn22z9o) - BBC
4. [**What Is the Extent of Sudan's Humanitarian Crisis?**](https://www.cfr.org/in-brief/what-extent-sudans-humanitarian-crisis) - Council on Foreign Relations (CFR)
5. [**Humanitarian Crisis: The Sudan Story**](https://globalhealthsciences.ucsf.edu/humanitarian-crisis-the-sudan-story/) - UCSF Global Health Sciences (Blog)
6. [**Humanitarian Crisis: The Sudan Story**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wYLKC6M3hzQ) - UCSF (YouTube Video)

## What's Fair Game

All information in the materials is testable, including:
- Graph/figure content (labels, numbers, statistics)
- Dates
- Numbers and statistics
- Names and backgrounds of speakers or individuals mentioned
- Definitions for key terms

:::note
References within the materials do not need to be memorized.
:::

## Key Themes to Study

- Sudan's geography and regional significance
- Historical context (independence, Bashir regime, Darfur)
- Current conflict between SAF and RSF
- Key figures: General al-Burhan, Hemedti
- Humanitarian crisis and displacement
- International response and aid challenges

## Competition Rules

See the [Quiz Bowl](/rulebook/brackets/quiz-bowl/) page for full competition rules and scoring.

## Contact

For questions about the materials: hkhattak@getmistified.com
