website/src/content/docs/knowledge-test-books.mdx, before:

---
title: Knowledge Test Books
description: Required reading for MIST Knowledge Test competitions - same books for Regionals and Nationals
---

import { Card, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

The following books are required reading for the Knowledge Test competition. These books will remain the same for both **Regional** and **National** tournaments.

:::tip[Study Tip]
Start reading early! These books cover diverse topics including Islamic law, Palestinian history, science, and spirituality. Give yourself time to absorb and reflect on the material.
:::

## Required Books

<div class="book-grid">

<div class="book-card">
  <img src="/book_covers/islam-secular-state.jpeg" alt="Islam and the Secular State book cover" class="book-cover" />
  <div class="book-info">
    <h3>Islam and the Secular State</h3>
    <p class="book-subtitle">Negotiating the Future of Shari'a</p>
    <p class="book-author">by Abdullahi Ahmed An-Na'im</p>
    <p class="book-description">A groundbreaking exploration of the relationship between Islam, the state, and society, arguing for a secular state that allows for religious freedom while maintaining Islamic values.</p>
    <a href="https://eltearabszak.hu/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Abdullahi-Ahmed-An-Na-im-Islam-and-the-Secular-State_-Negotiating-the-Future-of-Sharia.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="book-link">Download PDF →</a>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="book-card">
  <img src="/book_covers/hundred years.jpg" alt="The Hundred Years' War on Palestine book cover" class="book-cover" />
  <div class="book-info">
    <h3>The Hundred Years' War on Palestine</h3>
    <p class="book-subtitle">A History of Settler Colonial Conquest and Resistance, 1917-2017</p>
    <p class="book-author">by Rashid Khalidi</p>
    <p class="book-description">A landmark history of Palestine told through the lens of one family's experience, spanning from the Balfour Declaration to the present day.</p>
    <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Hundred-Years-War-Palestine-Resistance/dp/1627798552" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="book-link">View on Amazon →</a>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="book-card">
  <img src="/book_covers/The Alchemy of Us.jpg" alt="The Alchemy of Us book cover" class="book-cover" />
  <div class="book-info">
    <h3>The Alchemy of Us</h3>
    <p class="book-subtitle">How Humans and Matter Transformed One Another</p>
    <p class="book-author">by Ainissa Ramirez</p>
    <p class="book-description">A fascinating exploration of eight inventions and their surprising effects on humanity, revealing how the things we create end up creating us.</p>
    <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Alchemy-Us-Humans-Transformed-Another/dp/0262043807" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="book-link">View on Amazon →</a>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="book-card">
  <img src="/book_covers/Hearts Turn.jpg" alt="Hearts Turn book cover" class="book-cover" />
  <div class="book-info">
    <h3>Hearts Turn</h3>
    <p class="book-subtitle">Sinners, Seekers, Saints and the Road to Redemption</p>
    <p class="book-author">by Michael Sugich</p>
    <p class="book-description">A collection of true stories about spiritual transformation, featuring encounters with remarkable individuals on the path of Islamic spirituality.</p>
    <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Hearts-Turn-Sinners-Seekers-Redemption/dp/0989364003" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="book-link">View on Amazon →</a>
  </div>
</div>

</div>

## Study Recommendations

1. **Read actively** - Take notes, highlight key passages, and write summaries
2. **Discuss with teammates** - Form study groups to discuss themes and concepts
3. **Connect the dots** - Look for connections between the books and current events
4. **Review key facts** - Pay attention to names, dates, and specific details that may appear on tests
5. **Understand themes** - Go beyond memorization to understand the broader arguments and themes

## Questions?

For questions about Knowledge Test content or format, contact your Regional Headquarters or visit [getmistified.com](https://getmistified.com).

Commit message:

Add interactive scoring ballots to all competition pages
- Create configurable InteractiveBallot.astro component with:
  - Multi-column support (e.g., Game 1/2/3 for Improv)
  - Section groupings with subtotals
  - Bonus point checkboxes
  - Negative point deductions (for Quran competitions)
  - Auto-calculated totals and averages
  - Dark mode compatible styling

- Convert 22 competition pages from static tables to interactive ballots:
  - Arts: 2D Art, 3D Art, Digital Art, Fashion Design, Photography
  - Writing/Oratory: Poetry, Prepared Essay, Short Fiction,
    Extemporaneous Essay/Speaking, Original Oratory, Spoken Word
  - Group Projects: Business Venture, Humanitarian Service,
    Nasheed/Rap, Science Fair, Short Film, Social Media
  - Knowledge/Quran: Memorization & Recitation (with deductions)
  - Brackets: Improv (with 3-game columns)

- Add cross-linking across site pages
- Add Welcome Letter and Zip tutorials to early submissions
- Convert competition pages from .md to .mdx format

Co-authored-by: factory-droid[bot] <138933559+factory-droid[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

website/src/content/docs/knowledge-test-books.mdx, after:

---
title: Knowledge Test Books
description: Required reading for MIST Knowledge Test competitions - same books for Regionals and Nationals
---

import { Card, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

The following books are required reading for the [Knowledge Test](/rulebook/knowledge-quran/knowledge-tests/) competition. These books will remain the same for both **Regional** and **National** tournaments.

:::tip[Study Tip]
Start reading early! These books cover diverse topics including Islamic law, Palestinian history, science, and spirituality. Give yourself time to absorb and reflect on the material.
:::

## Required Books

<div class="book-grid">

<div class="book-card">
  <img src="/book_covers/islam-secular-state.jpeg" alt="Islam and the Secular State book cover" class="book-cover" />
  <div class="book-info">
    <h3>Islam and the Secular State</h3>
    <p class="book-subtitle">Negotiating the Future of Shari'a</p>
    <p class="book-author">by Abdullahi Ahmed An-Na'im</p>
    <p class="book-description">A groundbreaking exploration of the relationship between Islam, the state, and society, arguing for a secular state that allows for religious freedom while maintaining Islamic values.</p>
    <a href="https://eltearabszak.hu/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Abdullahi-Ahmed-An-Na-im-Islam-and-the-Secular-State_-Negotiating-the-Future-of-Sharia.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="book-link">Download PDF →</a>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="book-card">
  <img src="/book_covers/hundred years.jpg" alt="The Hundred Years' War on Palestine book cover" class="book-cover" />
  <div class="book-info">
    <h3>The Hundred Years' War on Palestine</h3>
    <p class="book-subtitle">A History of Settler Colonial Conquest and Resistance, 1917-2017</p>
    <p class="book-author">by Rashid Khalidi</p>
    <p class="book-description">A landmark history of Palestine told through the lens of one family's experience, spanning from the Balfour Declaration to the present day.</p>
    <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Hundred-Years-War-Palestine-Resistance/dp/1627798552" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="book-link">View on Amazon →</a>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="book-card">
  <img src="/book_covers/The Alchemy of Us.jpg" alt="The Alchemy of Us book cover" class="book-cover" />
  <div class="book-info">
    <h3>The Alchemy of Us</h3>
    <p class="book-subtitle">How Humans and Matter Transformed One Another</p>
    <p class="book-author">by Ainissa Ramirez</p>
    <p class="book-description">A fascinating exploration of eight inventions and their surprising effects on humanity, revealing how the things we create end up creating us.</p>
    <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Alchemy-Us-Humans-Transformed-Another/dp/0262043807" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="book-link">View on Amazon →</a>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="book-card">
  <img src="/book_covers/Hearts Turn.jpg" alt="Hearts Turn book cover" class="book-cover" />
  <div class="book-info">
    <h3>Hearts Turn</h3>
    <p class="book-subtitle">Sinners, Seekers, Saints and the Road to Redemption</p>
    <p class="book-author">by Michael Sugich</p>
    <p class="book-description">A collection of true stories about spiritual transformation, featuring encounters with remarkable individuals on the path of Islamic spirituality.</p>
    <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Hearts-Turn-Sinners-Seekers-Redemption/dp/0989364003" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="book-link">View on Amazon →</a>
  </div>
</div>

</div>

## Study Recommendations

1. **Read actively** - Take notes, highlight key passages, and write summaries
2. **Discuss with teammates** - Form study groups to discuss themes and concepts
3. **Connect the dots** - Look for connections between the books and current events
4. **Review key facts** - Pay attention to names, dates, and specific details that may appear on tests
5. **Understand themes** - Go beyond memorization to understand the broader arguments and themes

## Competition Rules

See the [Knowledge Tests](/rulebook/knowledge-quran/knowledge-tests/) page for full competition rules, test format, and what to bring.

## Questions?

For questions about Knowledge Test content or format, contact your Regional Headquarters or visit [getmistified.com](https://getmistified.com).
